To check the Django version, use
django-admin --version

To work with Django, it is recommended to create and use a virtual environment.

To create a virtual environment:
virtualenv venv

To activate the virtual environment:
source venv/bin/activate

To deactivate the virtual environment:
deactivate

To install Django inside the virtual environment:
pip install django

A Django project is the complete website. One project can contain multiple applications. The project handles overall configuration like settings, URLs, and server management.

A Django application is a part of a project. Each application is responsible for a specific functionality.

Example:
SMS (School Management System) is a Django project.
It can have multiple applications like fees app, result app, attendance app, etc.

To create a Django project when the folder does not exist:
django-admin startproject projectname

Example:
django-admin startproject sms

If the folder already exists and you want to create the project inside it:
django-admin startproject projectname .

To run the Django development server:
python manage.py runserver

After creating a project, Django creates two directories:
One outer directory and one inner project directory.

The inner project directory contains the following important files:

init.py
This file makes the directory a Python package.

wsgi.py
This stands for Web Server Gateway Interface. It connects the Django project to the web server. It is mainly used for synchronous Python applications and is rarely modified.

asgi.py
This stands for Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface. It supports both synchronous and asynchronous Python applications and is used for async features like WebSockets.

settings.py
This file is automatically generated when the project is created. It contains the secret key, which should be kept secure and preferably stored in an environment file. The DEBUG setting should be True during development and False during production. ALLOWED_HOSTS is used to allow domain names or IP addresses and is case-insensitive. INSTALLED_APPS is used to register all the applications created in the project.

urls.py
This file is used for URL routing. By default, it contains the admin route.

manage.py
This is a command-line utility used to run the server, create apps, apply migrations, and perform other administrative tasks.
`

Run server on a specific port -def. -127.0.1.8000 changed when port is busy - python manage.py runserver 4000 or etc
